Nicknames for the president's board. David
Morgan, it was called the House of David, and some
of the others. Let's see, Gilchrist? Not for him,
later. Harrington? Uncle Tom's cabin. Oh, okay.
Very good, very good. Rudder?
The General's shack, I wonder, or something like
that? Describe
how the students' relations with a faculty
member, what was their manner, their style, if
they came to your office? Were they respectful? Oh
yes, always respectful, always, yes sir.
Even
Murray
Trimble.
Fine football player? Yes. With what? Lost a hand?
Lost a hand. He got in big trouble.
During those years, particularly the 50s and 60s,
describe for me a typical work week for you.
Normally you left here and got to the office about
what time? Well, usually I made
quite a number of hours. Some conferences pretty
much took up my day. So you, did you walk over or
drive? I drove. So, more often than you'd think,
actually. So you'd leave here at about what
time? About 4. The students, and your work day,
you, so you were, as far as you recall, by the late
50s, what was a normal teaching load? When did it go
down from 18 hours? About 15 hours. About 15? About
15. And about how many of those were introductory
courses and how many advanced? Do you remember?
Well, at a senior level...
No, about how many of them were junior, senior
compared to the introductory freshmen? We
had a great many more freshmen,
really, but we had more freshmen sections because
everyone was... In the
English department, what were some of the popular
elective courses? And
then,
other than
that, I think probably American Lit Survey.
What were your favorite sections to teach? Well, I
was always interested in the American, taught a
novel score,
but we taught across the...
So, you would leave here, leave the house... Well,
I went between 7 and 30. I drove that short. Where'd
you park? In the academic building.
And there was no fee. Did you come home for lunch?
Yes. And then you went back, and normally your day
on the campus would end at about what time? And
five, six day a week, because it was a week. Six day a
week, because it was Tuesday, Thursday,
Saturday. What did you and your family, what, the
social life, as the girls got a little older, what
did you all do in the community? Well,
of course, they were wrapped up in school
activities, and we did all the PTA stuff. And of
course, we went to all the, any concert or play or
anything. Where
were the concerts and the plays held on campus?
Guyon Hall. And make believe that I had never been
in Guyon Hall. Describe it for me. Well, it was sort
of a Greek revival, sort of a lovely old building.
And it seated 1,200 men? About 1,200 men. It had
religious emphasis.
Do you remember some famous people that came to
speak or perform? Because
I've heard some of the students talk about the big
bands that came and performed in... Sabisa for
their dances. Who were the, in the 50s, who were the
key administrators? Who was the Dean of Arts and
Sciences during those years? I
knew that was coming. Was Dr. Abbott in there? I
suspect so. And then Frank Hubert comes in 59.
Yeah. All right, let's talk about him. Describe
him as the Dean. He was very effective.
Took some ribbing here and there about having been
an high school band director and so on. But he was
very approachable.
The,
Mr. Rutter comes in January of 59. Were there any
faculty comments about his selection, his
appointment,
as you recall? What about David Morgan? How did the
faculty see him? I
think there
was some satisfaction,
an outsider sort of.
I got here at about the same time Mr. Rutter did. And
at first, I wasn't impressed with Mr. Rutter's
academic style and ability. But I later came to
realize that he had many other abilities. Let's
see. Describe College Station in the 50s and 60s as
a very separate town. Well, it of course was still
very small. And if you need anything,
just get in.
Get what they want. If we locked the
house.
And people, I presume, have always parked over
here for football games. Have you ever had any
incidents, problems on a football weekend of
somebody that parked in front of the house and
bothered anything? No, Captain. Never? They're
really regulating that now, but never many times.
Back
to campus. Who were some of the key individuals
that you, other than maybe the President and so
forth, some other key individuals that you think
helped make A&M in the 50s, 60s, 70s? Advisors,
counselors, administrators? Wayne
Stark, let's see. Yeah, Wayne Stark. What role did
he play that made the thing better? Really, he was
tremendous. He involved so many
students and taught them so much and involved them
in the activities. Made all kinds of really good
efforts. Trying to give you some of that
sophistication and memories. As
Bill said, they don't have tremendous influence
and made all the difference in the world when they
were students. Did you ever go on any of those? Yes.
Can you describe one of those? Well, I
remember going to Luke and C. I believe an opera,
maybe at Jones Hall with a group of students. And we
met with John... Lindsey? Lindsey, yeah. John
Lindsey thereafter, and he took us to a club, which
is
a little farther. What was the effect on the
students of that weekend? Well, I think they were a
little bit awestruck. But I think they did it. I
think that for... We got to go on one of those. And I
got the impression that this was almost like
helping those students to raise their sights.
That you could become able to enjoy this kind of art
and culture and so forth. Yeah, I think he had that
in mind. Pinky Downs. Yeah, I met Pinky almost as
soon as I arrived. I think I was in the Campus Post.
I met Pinky Downs, and
I think he always gave his...
Before the MSC was built, what was the center for
extracurricular activities?
Certainly back when we came here, when the girls
came down from Texas University. There
were a few activities at the old YMCA, I
understand. Yes, there were some. Was Mr. Cashin
still active? Yes, yes. I know nothing about him.
Please tell about him. He
was a much loved person.
Where did a student in the 50s and 60s, where did a
student go for advice, counsel? Probably some
faculty health center, of course. I don't really
remember that we had any. See, I have the belief
that in that era, faculty members thought that one
of their unwritten responsibilities was to be a
counselor in addition to being a teacher. That
teacher... Was he teaching? Extended far beyond
the classroom. Yeah, I think so. I've been proud of
A&M on that score. All right. We were talking about
presidents. Jack Williams, what was your
impression of him and his role as president here? I
was very favorably impressed with him. He was one I
knew before I came here. He was a great person. He
was a great man. He was a great man. He was a great
man. He was a great man. He was a great man. He was a
great man. He was a great man. He was a great man. He
was a great man. He was a great man. He was a great
man. He was a great man
in my opinion,
and had a tough
time . What
do you think were some of your... 40 years? How long
I taught? Yeah, I taught for 32 years. 32. Well, my
slot was 46 to 78. Oh, okay. I've had 21 years since
then from which I grew up. That's about it. get
right during those years
if there were people that you could pull out and
thank them and Pat them who were those people that
made a difference for this school
do
any of the president's do you have any favorites
among them
what are some of the key decisions you think that
were made during that were very important to A&M
today well we integrated for one thing I remember
very well we conducted the summer school
enrollment speech of all and the word was passed
along to us there will be black students enrolled
in the role and it was a piece of a thing that
somebody made that decision and of course
eventually
do you remember any even a hint of an incident over
integration I don't think so I don't either yeah
that was much easier I now know that Mr. Rutter was a
key person in getting those students here that
summer because he called the Pentagon and had them
send as they normally would send army personnel to
finish a degree and I now know that he called and
said send some including some black students no
academic danger no conduct problem and then when
the fall began since everything had gone well in
the summer someone couldn't organize a group say
it won't work it had worked do you do you remember as
women began do you remember any any kinds of any
incidents or awkward moments or pranks he was a
regular he was
a regular
yeah yeah
I remember he talked about perhaps starting maybe
in American literature
also we dug into it and we had to have a biography of
each professor who would teach a regular course we
fought all that out in the 1950s and were there any
snags as you remember or did it pretty well go for it
well it pretty well went
along and when did the doctoral program were you
still a faculty member when the doctoral program
began yes any key people that deserve a pat on the
back there well certainly this department had
worked like a tiger in Washington and Lee Martin ok
very was Maxwell the dean by this time David
Maxwell no we had this one oh ok so it would still
have been Hubert I guess then huh ok was English one
of the pioneer humanities social sciences
graduate area let's
see do you remember anything that students ever
did to go out of their way to be polite or show
appreciation for anything
did any student or parent of the student ever
attempt to intimidate you unless my student my son
passes this or that did anybody ever attempt to in
any way bribe you with anything that they did to you
or bribe you with anything no I only had one parent I
had
any
idea
where he was
well I didn't I got I remember who I got in touch with
but I got in touch with some authority I said we have
about 3 days later they discovered him hiding out
in a dome there was something wrong with the young
man in age well past that he was scared to death
his father named
Steele He
got in touch later and I eventually
let him leave. He came back and took the question.
Do
you recall any, what you now in hindsight think of,
as administrative interference with the way the
academic program was operated in English? In
terms of, was there a merit salary system
and the promotions were handled, as far as you were
concerned, with reasonable fairness and equity?
Who
are some special students that you remember now
with pride and joy? Well,
I've always been, I've kept up with six or four
attorneys.
Oh, did you? Describe him as a student. Well, Jack
had been on campus,
but he didn't throw any weight around. And
he'd gone to a small high school, because he was a,
yes. Jack made it be, as I recall, he did something
notable. Yeah.
Was he a
good student?
Let's go back to Part D for a second. Did, under Bear
Bryant, was there ever any, did anybody ever try to
influence you in grading an athlete? Not
directly, but he had a, he had a… Jerry Claiborne?
Jerry Claiborne. Kentucky?
Yeah. Anyway, Jerry would come… Did any
other coach ever, in any sport, ever attempt to…
attempt to ask for any special favors? Did anyone
in the Corps? And
you didn't hear any about any board member's son or
any general's son? No, I didn't. I guess I was
lucky. Other special students? You mentioned
Stick Stengel and Jack Pardee. Others that you
remember with pride? A
young lady named Ann Abbey.
She was
Sam Melton's
daughter.
Mm-hmm. Ann Abbey, Texas Ironman. Oh, good. I
remember her. She did extremely well.
Did you become involved with any extracurricular
student groups? Oh, yes. I remember students. Oh,
yeah, I did a lot of that. Of course, Duke and I was on
the… I worked with Skona for a year, and I was on the
MSC Council, which
I remember. I remember Chad Edwards was one of the
best representatives. From Waco and Temple? Yes,
I remember Chad very well. Oh, I
remember John Rogers. He was a pagan
in the insurance company in Dallas. Bud Whitney
actually
started Skona. And then there was John Samuels,
the New York millionaire. He was a sponsor of the
opera and all that sort of thing. He was one of my
debaters. Yeah, I remember those folks well. If
you could go back… This is a very broad question.
Very broad question. If you could go back and make
any changes in decisions or procedures, what
would you change, being blessed with hindsight?
I was asking you to offer advice, based on your
experience, anything you would have changed then
and or advice to give to leaders now about A&M.
Well, I would have tried to change then. Yeah.
It's just
what I think ought to be added something
in the…
During those years that you were active on the
campus, who were the key people whom you thought
were most sensitive to this need to broaden and to
deepen?
I guess all English faculty felt that way. What
about key campus leaders? Well…